It's been a year now, Singhji.
Aren't you over it yet?
Hasn't the wound healed?
Who says it hasn't?
There's no need for words,
you're not what you were.
You're a warrior's son -you have
the blood of Pratap Singh in your veins.
- That's just the trouble.
- How do you mean?
That blood won't let me
accept betrayal.
If one wife has left you,
then get yourself another.
- Why not?
- That one will run away, too.
I've had enough of them.
She left because she wanted money.
If you had money, she'd have stayed.
Mr. Budha's monopoly service
ruined your business.
That's why she left you.
Yes... I suppose you're right.
Let's shake on it.
Fifty-fifty partners.
Singh-Naskar and Company.
You're a champion driver,
I'm a champion mechanic.
Let's see which bastard can beat us.
You know how tough it is
on your own.
Then one day
you'll stab me in the back?
How do I know you're not a bastard?
Whatever gave you that idea?
Just because your ancestors
fought on horseback...
does that make you a nobleman?
You're just a driver,
I'm just a driver.
You have a Chrysler,
I have a Chevrolet...
but we both carry passengers.
No. No partnership.
All these bastards are cheats.
Think it over
once you've calmed down.
Get in. Mind the step.
(indistinct)
Mind your veil.
- No springs poking out of the seats?
- Grandpa, you hurt my feelings.
(indistinct)
Hey!
We're not going.
- Come on!
- What the heck?
- Not going?
- This car is going nowhere.
- No women in my car, I said
- But she's a bride, Singhji.
If I complain to the police.
You won't be a taxi driver for long.
What if we miss our train?
I'll take you there, come on.
ABHIJAN (The Expedition)
Do you think we'll catch the train?
Ask Singhji.
Will we catch it?
- How should I know?
- It's your car. You ought to know.
- It's in God's hands.
- But the wheel is in your hands.
I said it's in God's hands
You heard what Singhji said?
Accident?
And accidents?
Address him with respect.
If he gets mad, his hand starts shaking.
Really?
Have you seen Vyjayanthimala dance?
That's how the car will move.
Faster!
Get in quick! Hurry!
Get in quickly!
Isn't that train we supposed to go?
- Yes...
- Yes, indeed.
That's the train.
Do you think we have a chance now?
Good bye!
(reading English)
A crank start?
You drive.
Really?
I'll take a nap
Some call me wild
Let them call me what they want
(honking)
Why are you tooting?
- He won't let me pass.
- Who?
It's Mr Budha.
What?
The bastard! Stop the car.
- Sure?
- Yes, stop the car.
Move across.
(honking)
- Who's that behind us?
- One of our taxis.
- What insolence
- He doesn't realize you're with me.
You want a monopoly service?
- How long have you worked here?
- Four years, sir.
You'll find another place.
I have canceled your license.
- Why is that?
- You know why!
You think you're doing circus stunts
with your car!
Overtaking like that!
- Sir, I didn't realize you...
- It makes no difference.
In my district
you don't put people's lives at risk
Sir, just this once...
Shut up. I won't hear another word.
- I admit I was wrong, sir. My job...
- Shut up!
Get out!
(banging)
Singh ji!
- Don't hit her.
- Why not? She messed up my job.
(indistinct)
- It's your fault, too.
- My fault? What did I do?
Couldn't you see who was in the car?
Are you blind?
How could I? Even you...
They never let you stand on your feet
And if you do, they knock you down,
break your legs.
They will force you to stop your service
and will take away the permit.
They've taken away the permit?
For a moment I felt like falling
at his feet...
but my heart stopped me.
What stopped you?
Blood. The blood flowing in my veins.
I am of the warrior caste.
Narsingh, falling at his feet.
Not possible for me,
simly I can't.
Here, start up.
Not anymore.
Let's go home to Giribraja.
- Hey, Rama!
- Hmm?
- Are you asleep, Rama?
- No, Singhji.
There isn't a worse job in the world
than being a driver, is there?
No, Singhji.
Stop!
Please, stop!
- Are you going to Shyamnagar?
- No. Why?
I'd be so grateful
if you could take me.
This isn't a taxi.
I'm asking for your help.
The stupid driver overturned the cart,
our luggage...
I said this isn't a taxi,
it's a private car.
- I'll make it worth your while
- What do you mean?
Twenty rupees.
Twenty-five!
- Twenty-five!
- Agreed.
You idiot! I'll break your bones!
(indistinct)
Gulabi!
Is she going as well?
Yes. No one else, just her.
No, not possible.
Rama, leave the luggage. Let's go.
But why? She's my new maid.
It will cost you double.
I'll pay. By the grace of God,
Sukhanram is not short of money.
- Half in advance
- Of course. And five extra.
Hold this!
Driver, how much does your car cost?
- Ten thousand!
- Huh?
Ten thousand?
Really, huh?
Singhji, look to your right.
Those are the rocks of Shyamnagar.
Watchman! Hariya!
Open the gate!
That's enough.
Take the luggage, Hariya.
What about my money?
Messing up my plans.
Money?
I'll give you your money.
Come in for five minutes.
- Have a drink
- What sort of drink?
You did me a big favour.
Now come inside.
Take her inside.
Where are you?
I won't give you twenty.
I'll give you...
One, two, three, four five...
Here. Fifty.
Yes, maybe...
I could help you start a taxi service
from Shyamnagar to Panchmati
There's no taxi service here.
Why would you make it easy for me?
I have a business.
Deliveries, tobacco and stuff.
A car will come in handy for me.
You saw what happens with an ox cart.
That's why I suggest you stay here.
I'll arrange a place for you.
And if your car needs any repairs,
I'll pay for that, too.
Get a permit and start a taxi service.
Once you start making some money,
you can repay my loan bit by bit.
When you're up and running,
you can deliver some goods for me.
Simple as that. No inconvenience,
no problem, nothing.
- Would you need this?
- Huh?
The lighter!
Take it.
You don't have to answer right away.
Take your time, think it over.
Stay here today and look around,
see what the roads are like.
See how many other cars there are.
Make a few trial trips to Panchmati.
Then come back and tell me
your decision in the evening.
But I can tell you,
this is a nice place.
The water's good, you'll have a good
appetite, you'll get strong.
Well, Singhji?
I'll think it over.
Have a drink before you go.
Look at that.
- Who does he think he is?
- Wouldn't you show off such a car?
What's so special about it?
Even a dead elephant
is worth a fortune.
It's not just the car, but the look.
Hey, give me a cup of tea!
A cup of tea.
- What did you pay for this?
- Two rupees.
A cup of tea, quick.
He looks like the warrior
Shivaji's descendant.
Nitai, come and take a look!
- Have you never seen a car before?
- It's King George V's private taxi.
Chrysler.
- I mean your car.
- Yes, I know...
Is that your car?
- Do you just drive it, or...
- It's my car and I drive it.
- A 1931 model?
- 1930.
Give me a tea, quickly.
Brother, where are my glasses?
Are you starting a taxi service?
- Why?
- Just wondering.
- Are there other taxis here?
- No, that's all we have.
You'll do well.
Do you expect to get something out of it?
Why should I? I drive the
Sub-Divisional Officer's jeep.
Where are you from?
I mean, are you a Bengali?
No, I'm from Giribraja.
What? Are you...
Are you one of the Giribraja Singhs?
Your name...
Do you know them?
Do I know them?
Have you heard of Prankrishna Das?
A friend of your grandfather.
He was my grandfather.
My father settled here
25 years ago.
Wasn't he a Christian?
Oh, I see!
What an extraordinary coincidence.
Lucky for me. I was hoping to find
out something about this place.
I know. Come home with me.
It's not far.
Behind the Uncle and Nephew rocks.
- Behind what?
- Didn't you see the rocks?
I saw some on the way in.
Let's walk home.
We can see the rocks on the way.
- I'll pay.
- How kind of you...
I'm two months older than you.
My mother told me.
Rama, watch the car.
Sly foxes!
Do you know what is that?
Father Wilkins. He used
to frighten us by saying...
Just think...
All the sins of Shyamnagar
are on top of that rock.
Come!
Does it look like a village
in Bengal?
I wish I could race a horse here.
They say your grandfather
was a great rider. Do you ride, too?
More than one horse.
- Twenty-six
- Really?
Haven't you seen my Chrysler?
Twenty-six horsepower.
Come this way.
Take a look there!
As children, we wrote our names
on the rocks. They're still there.
- J. R?
- I'm Joseph Rajani Das.
- And the other name?
- My sister.
- Are you back already?
- Recognise him?
- You don't recognize him?
- Not really.
Uncle Madhab's son Narsingh,
from Giribraja.
He's starting a taxi service.
It's so long since I saw him,
and my eyes aren't what they were.
He arrived yesterday.
How kind of you to grace our home.
- Where's Neeli?
- Indoors.
- Neeli?
- Coming...
Sit. This was father's chair.
Ma, give Singhji some of the cake
that Neeli made.
Sit down.
Christmas decorations
we haven't taken down yet.
Stay. It's as good a place as any
to start a taxi service.
I've worked for the SDO for four years.
He'll give you a permit.
What about the other people?
The drivers?
They're troublemakers, aren't they?
Same as everywhere.
Trouble at first, then everything's fine.
You're all right, but if you were Christian
I'd advise you not to stay.
- Do they get at you?
- Not me, I use my fists if need be.
But my sister,
she has to go to school.
- Mary Neelima, this is...
- I overheard everything.
She'll help you fill out your permit
application in her lovely handwriting.
- In English?
- Of course!
She passed her matric.
She teaches at the school.
Why not show him
some of your books?
(indistinct)
See this!
This is very good.
Will you stay here?
I'm trying to persuade him to stay.
My son asked me to bring you a cake,
but I'm not sure if you would like to eat.
Keep it!
How can I persuade you? We were
low caste, but now we are Christians.
I never thought about that.
As Neeli had made cake...
Sit down and eat.
You should stay here tonight.
Here?
Why not? It's no trouble for me.
And I have something new for you.
Especially for you.
- Is it?
- Hey, Hariya?
The car will take you back
in the morning.
So you have a car now?
When my back was hurt last night...
I thought I was being punished
for my sins.
But God works in mysterious ways.
He did not forget my good deeds.
A taxi appeared out of the blue.
And with it, an expert driver.
He covered a distance of 80 miles
in two hours.
I decided to keep him. In my trade...
Come in, Singhji.
I can tell from the dust
that you've been to Panchmati.
Yes!
- How did you like it?
- The roads are bad.
I know that.
But I also know they'll be repaired
within the year.
How much you need?
I'll pay that tomorrow.
Come in. Lift your veil.
(indistinct)
Singhji, hello!
Abhimanyu appeared for an action.
- Did Abhimanyu have a beard?
- Sure he did.
You don't know anything.
He died when he was sixteen.
A beard? By magic?
No, that was Abhimanyu's father.
And that is Abhimanyu.
How was it... the trip to Panchmati?
Good.
So you're working without a license?
How long does a licence take?
He has a Jack in his hand.
What Jack?
Yes, a Jack. Can't you read English?
J for Joseph.
And K for Christian.
- How much did he take?
- Nothing.
Liked your face?
Yes!
He'll get me the licence, too.
Good night!
My jaws are aching. The Imambazar
restaurant was much better.
- You don't like anything here.
- The people here aren't decent.
- Which people?
- The drivers.
They're jealous, of the Chrysler.
Of course, they'll be jealous.
I compete with them,
why should they welcome me?
That bus driver threw tea at you,
the devil.
So what? Remember how it was
when we started in Imambazar?
They calmed down.
No one can beat me
as I am a warrior's son.
Do you know the Christian from before?
He's from Giribraja.
A low caste, he became a Christian.
I know that.
But he seems to have forgotten,
mixing with you like that.
He drives for the SDO.
He'll help get me a permit quickly.
And the old businessman?
He's a snake.
- What do you know about him?
- I know.
- I've been told.
- Who told?
(honking)
That girl.
Bring me some more bread.
Which girl? Which girl told you?
The one he said was his maid.
You've been talking to her?
She came to the well for water.
She's nice. I told her all about you.
- What did you say?
- She asked about you.
She's a bitch, a bad woman.
- No, she just...
- Shut up!
Talk to her again
and I'll kick you out.
Stick to your job, don't worry
about who is good, who is bad.
Okay.
Will you be able to sleep here?
Why?
So much stuff,
there's a horrible stink.
- You'll sleep here, too.
- I'll sleep in the Chrysler.
Why there?
To make sure no one steals any parts.
(reading English)
Gulabi?
Gulabi!
Whare are you?
(knock on door)
Who is it?
Rama?
What are you doing here?
Let me stay, just for the night.
What?
I beg you.
- They'll kill me.
- Who?
The new fellow, he will dishonour me.
Dishonour?
Look at this!
What can I do about it?
No, you can't stay here.
You've ruined my sleep. Go away.
I won't do anything, sir.
I'll sit in the corner...
What does that mean"?
What do you take me for?
I'm a warrior caste. Do you know that?
Women for us are...
Go away!
All right, sir.
Gulabi...?
Hey, you!
If you want to stay,
stay in the corner.
If they come looking for you,
I'll throw you out.
Shall I shut the door?
Yes.
- With this, too?
- Yes.
It's cold.
- Can I say something?
- Again?
My name is Gulabi.
I'm Rana Pratap Singh.
I recognised your horn.
What have you decided?
- I might as well stay.
- Very well.
I thought so. I have a plan.
The jeep will break down tomorrow.
You'll take the SDO to Panchmati
in your Chrysler.
Pick him up at 7:30.
On the way, you discuss your permit.
- And you?
- I'll be there.
I'll introduce you,
then go to get the jeep repaired.
(indistinct)
- Good morning!
- Morning!
- Where are you going?
- To the school.
Where is your school?
- Have you seen the church?
- Not yet.
- It's near the church.
- I'll take you in the car.
- Don't trouble yourself.
- Your brother is coming along.
I offered to give her a lift.
Yes, you've never driven
in such a car.
- What happened?
- It's my fault, I didn't see the tear.
A monkey did it.
I swear!
Start up!
- How long have you had the car?
- About four years.
Brother's never given me a lift.
Never mind, I'll take you out.
A jeep's not much fun, anyway.
You'll see how this car runs.
I can.
If you want to go anywhere, tell me.
Can you stop for a minute?
I didn't realize it was you.
Here is your book.
Singhji kindly gave me a lift.
This is Mr Ajoy.
- Greetings!
- Good morning.
Good morning.
There's something...
I can walk from here.
- Sorry about the seat.
- Never mind.
See you later.
What happened to his leg?
As a boy, he fell from
the Uncle and Nephew rocks.
He was very mischievous,
but look at him now.
He spends his time on religion
and studies. He taught Neeli English.
He is a nice guy.
(indistinct)
- Your car runs beautifully.
- Only the seat is rotten.
(indistinct)
How it gleams.
- Are you staying with Sukhanram?
- Yes!
You gave him a lift
when his cart overturned?
How do you know?
I heard about it.
- You didn't know him before, did you?
- No!
- What's wrong?
- Nothing serious...
I don't know if I should tell you.
But if you stay here,
you're bound to find out.
- People say lots about him.
- Such as?
He runs rackets. His house
has been searched a few times.
They once found opium there
in some ghee tins.
And there was a scandal about women.
He takes girls from villages, uses them,
then sells them off.
I thought it best to warn you,
you might run into trouble.
- Which car is this?
- A Chrysler.
Have you put in an application?
Not yet, sir.
Send it to me, I'll see it's granted.
Get recommendations
from some reputable people.
The lawyer, the doctor
and a few others.
- Are you a rash driver?
- Not at all, sir.
Accidents happen
when drivers show off.
Overtaking right and left,
like circus performers.
Press the accelerator,
the car goes faster.
Where's the valour in that?
Correct!
They say life and death
are in God's hands.
But if you run over someone
and he dies...
is that death in God's hands
or yours?
Mine, sir
So how can you say
it's in God's hands?
God can do as He pleases, but how can
you, a man, have the same right?
Taxi service! Come on!
(indistinct)
(mocking)
Those children are rascals.
Many thanks.
You fell off the rocks?
Yes, once I was naughty like them.
That's why God punished me.
Should naughty children have their
legs broken? It's a matter of luck.
What's God to do with it?
If they bother you again,
I'll teach them a lesson.
What's wrong?
Your car?
The seat has been repaired.
It won't bother you again.
- Where are you going?
- To church. It's Sunday.
Miss Neeli, does your God
punish sinners?
Of course.
There's a saying in the Bible:
The wages of sin is death.
Which means?
A sinner's punishment is death.
- So if I sin, I die?
- Yes.
- And if I don't?
- Then you don't have to die.
Don't you believe in God?
Well, if I drive past a temple
or a mosque...
I make a salaam.
Don't you pay your respects
to a church?
Of course, I will do
as you're a Christian.
Miss Neeli, will you teach me English?
Me? Why?
I learned some, I can still read a bit,
but I want to learn it better.
That's wonderful.
If you don't know English,
you aren't respected.
- People think that you're inferior.
- Whoever gave you that idea?
I know that...
as I work as a driver.
You're wrong.
My brother is also a driver.
You own your car, he works for others.
I never consider him inferior.
- Really?
- Never.
You don't think I'm inferior?
Why? Behavior determines
whether one is inferior or superior.
If you acted as an inferior,
I'd think of you as one.
- So will you teach me English?
- Of course.
That's our church over there.
(counting money)
Your money.
- Which money?
- The loan.
What am I to do with this money?
Take it and set me free.
Free? Have I imprisoned you, Singhji?
In your debt, I'm not free.
Singhji, sit down.
I'm too dusty.
What if it's dust or dirt?
Dirt is our business.
Money is dirt and dirt is money.
Sit down. You're so tall,
I'll get a stiff neck looking up at you.
Paramhamsa Dev said it in a Bengali film:
"Money is dirt and dirt is money".
What did you want to say?
What would you do if you were free?
What I used to do before.
Is that all?
A taxi driver to a taxi driver.
Don't you want to do better?
Have your own company?
A partner in a company,
doesn't that appeal to you?
You chug along decrepit old roads.
Some days you make money, some days
you don't. What's special in that?
Wouldn't you prefer...
partnership in a transport company?
I never said I didn't.
Can you start a company on your own?
Why not?
- Can I ask you something?
- What is it?
How long it took to set up the
Imambazar taxi service?
About three years.
What if I made you a partner
in three months?
What company?
A new company, a monopoly service,
rock solid.
Lawyer Mukherjee is in with me.
How can I be a partner
without the money?
Is money everything in this world?
In business, sometimes you need
other things besides money.
I told the lawyer Singhji
has something special in him.
And money has nothing to do with it.
What are you thinking?
I wonder why you do so much for me.
- You're warrior caste, aren't you?
- Yes.
Warriors are brave, aren't they?
They love the idea of an adventure.
Sometimes they like
take risks, don't they?
Yes, sometimes.
Okay.
I'll give you an address.
Deliver this container for me, that's all.
Not every day, from time to time.
Today, then again in a few days,
occasionally.
What are the risks?
None, if no one finds out.
That's all. Now no more questions.
In a few days, we'll visit my lawyer.
You'll talk things over,
sign a few papers...
then within three months
we start our business, that's it.
Then we'll find you a nice woman,
you'll get married...
start a family, that's all,
what else is there?
What's in the tin?
Not ghee.
Any fool knows that much.
If it were,
I'd deliver it myself and say...
"Here's the ghee,
now fry some chappatis".
Are the contents illegal?
Sure, it's illegal.
Singhji, there's something
you should know.
Some things are straight, some are
crooked. That's the way of business.
Any businessman who says
he's always straight is lying.
When you drive, is the road always
straight, or does it sometimes...
If you say it's straight,
the deal's off.
What's my share?
Full partnership, equal partners.
Shall I give you the address?
Will you deliver the tin?
- Let me see the lawyer first.
- Okay, as you wish.
Singhji...
Singhji, one more thing.
You're a young man,
I understand your needs.
If you want something, tell me.
I have money and beautiful women.
Very well.
What do you want?
- I want to tell you something.
- What is that?
When you leave from here...
- Leave for where?
- Home.
Who said I was leaving?
An honest man cannot stay here.
So I am an honest man?
I spent the night in your room
and you left me alone.
You aren't just a good man.
You are a god.
What did you want to say?
When you leave, take me with you.
- Nonsense. Where can I take you?
- To your home, where else?
And then?
On the way, you can throw me to the
wild dogs. That's better than this.
Gulabi?
He's calling you.
Will you take me with you?
I'm not going anywhere.
I'm staying right here.
What a strange world.
An ox cart overturns
and there is an accident...
and now we're at a circus.
- Funny, isn't it?
- Lucky for me.
The day you came home
and ate Neeli's cake...
I knew I had found a friend at last.
What I've had to put up with.
You're a Hindu, I'm a Christian,
he's a Muslim.
You fast, you eat pork,
you raise chickens.
Why squabble?
Let's talk about our professions instead.
We're both drivers,
Rashid Mian is a driver.
All of us get covered with grease
and dirt doing repairs.
Aren't we all the same?
Why the question of caste and creed?
- Do you drink?
- Yes, but not over there.
Why be scared? I'll be right back.
(indistinct)
- How goes it, Singhji?
- No need to ask him.
Look at his clothes.
I'd love a pair of trousers like his.
Know what you'd have to do?
Hang around with that Christian girl...
Who said that?
Don't expect them to tell you.
I said it.
- I said it.
- No...
You didn't.
Why make trouble needlessly?
Needlessly?
Carrying on with that Christian girl.
What Christian girl?
How many Christian girls do you know?
You want to know which one?
The one who carried on
with the lame boy.
And now rides in a Chrysler to school.
Good morning, madam.
Step outside.
Hold on to this.
Damn warrior caste!
You want to compete?
Narasingh...?
Rama, help me get him into the car.
- What happened?
- How do you feel now?
Don't get up.
- My car...
- Rama is looking after it, take rest.
The bastard. The cheat.
You shouldn't get into a fight.
Look how badly you're hurt.
Don't mess with such people.
Why did it start so suddenly?
The bastard said...
that Neeli and the lame boy...
How often have I asked her
not to go to his house?
Ma, don't start again.
I'll say it a hundred times,
how the neighbours talk about it.
Tell them Neeli goes there to study.
He was a brilliant student.
What good is that?
Can a lame boy earn a living?
Why are you getting up?
- I'm going.
- Stay. Have dinner with us.
I don't feel like eating.
- How do you feel now?
- Fine. And you?
They couldn't touch me.
You were a big help, brother.
Six against one. That's too many,
even for a Singh.
- Rama...
- Yes, coming.
- The bastards...
- Carefully...
Six against one. Otherwise, I would
have taught them a lesson.
Didn't I tell you not to mess up
with them?
They're jealous...
They'll be even more jealous
of the company.
What company?
A bus service, taxis, lorries, trucks.
- Are you listening?
- Yes, I am.
What happened?
Who?
Why?
Miss Neeli...
Good morning!
Feeling better already?
We're a tough lot.
- But your eyes...
- Give them a couple of days.
I feel so bad about it.
Why so?
It's all because of me.
So what?
- You've done a lot for me.
- Of course, I will...
You are my brother's friend.
I'm your friend, too.
We'll be off.
Singhji...
Yes...
- Are you my friend?
- Don't you believe me?
Then can I request something?
- Yes, of course. Who shall I beat up?
- No beating involved.
Then?
- Tell no one, not even my brother.
- I won't say a word.
Can you meet me tomorrow night
with your car?
Where?
Somewhere we both know,
but somewhere isolated.
- Can I suggest?
- Indeed.
How about the rocks where you wrote
your names years ago?
Fine. I'll be there.
- What time?
- 10:00pm.
Okay.
- You won't forget?
- I never forget easily.
Neeli...
- Can I say something, too?
- Sure.
Don't tell anyone, not even Joseph.
Okay.
I'm going to be a partner
in a company.
Is it?
A transport company.
Within three months.
- You won't feel inferior anymore.
- No.
- Don't messup with those fellows.
- Sure.
If they speak about me, keep calm.
I'll try.
And don't drink too much.
I'll try that, too.
The bus is about to leave for Panchmati!
Take your seats! Hurry!
No taxi today.
- What's happened to Singhji?
- No, idea.
The car isn't coming today.
The comfort was different,
it's not so comfortable.
(indistinct)
Get the bottle from the back seat.
The bottle!
Throw it in the pond.
- You mean... in the water?
- Yes!
Hurry up, we're leaving!
I'll be crushed.
I'd rather wait in the dust.
(indistinct)
Here he comes.
What happened?
It's already late.
(indistinct chatter)
We almost gave up today.
A cup of tea, quickly.
- You still here?
- I was waiting for you.
It will be fine, don't worry.
I'm away with the boss
for a few days.
I'm worried about Neeli.
You can see the sort they are.
They dare not hassle me,
but they may take it out on Neeli...
As long as I'm here, have no worries.
No bastard will dare bother her.
Panchmati...
Come on, let's go!
What happened today?
Why are you late?
- Is the black eye from an accident?
- No.
- What, then?
- A mosquito.
- A mosquito bit me.
- Strange!
Singhji's sense of humour is intact.
How fast can your car go?
What's it matter? We're doing well.
This is the age of speed.
Mitter, don't be nervous.
It's Nripen I'm nervous about...
His horoscope predicts
death by accident.
Oh! I see.
Everyone, hold tight!
I know now it is love,
whether you admit it or not.
My love, I am indebted to you.
Walk carefully on the road...
I'm off in the car, got work to do.
You walk back home.
Will you take us to the ferry?
What's the matter?
We're going away.
We're running away to Kolkata.
Running away? Why?
We're getting married.
It's impossible here.
You heard my mother.
We won't have a chance here.
Don't turn us away.
We have no one else.
You are my only friend.
It's been so long for both of us...
You've done so much for me.
A last request,
please take us to the ferry.
Singhji...
Come on, then.
Come on, hurry!
Come on.
- Rama!
- Singhji?
That girl...
Gulabi?
Send her to my room.
You have been lied.
Rama, get me some tea.
- Didn't you see me?
- When?
A minute ago.
I was standing by the well.
- Is something worrying you?
- Huh?
Are you thinking?
Lots to think about.
I know that.
- Take this.
- What?
Sweets.
Misti.
(sweets in Bengali)
I made them.
I made some for you the other day
and left them on the roof terrace.
The monkeys ran off with them.
Gulabi...
Aren't you afraid to come here
in broad daylight?
Why?
Your master will beat you up.
Master? You are my master.
Nonsense!
You like it?
Everything's good when you're hungry.
I didn't eat last night,
my stomach was rumbling.
I know how to cook, very well.
Grandma taught me.
I can cook, sewing...
husk rice, fetch water.
- I can sing, too.
- Really?
The orchards are in full bloom.
My beloved does not come.
The mango groves are green and ripe.
The Mahua blossoms beckon you.
The woods are alive with love.
My beloved does not come.
Wonderful!
Did Grandma teach you
that as well?
I had no one else.
- What about your mother?
- No...
She died when I was born.
That's how all my troubles started.
So when this man forced himself
on me, they said...
"When you were born
your mother died.
"Now you are no use for anything else".
What did you say?
There was a pond behind the house.
- Understood what I said?
- Yes, you mean pond.
I wanted to tie a rock around my neck
and drown in that pond.
Why didn't you do it?
Because they locked me up.
Lord, how they hit me...
slapped me, kicked me.
They pulled my hair, dragged me...
and locked me in a room.
Seven days I lay there without food.
Nothing to eat, nothing to drink,
not even a drop.
For seven days and nights
all I did...
was sit and think how to die.
Then one day...
I noticed a box in the corner
of the room.
I dragged it to the middle
and stood on it.
I took off my sari and tied
one end around my neck...
and the other end to the ceiling beam.
And then what happened?
- It all went wrong.
- Why?
Do you think it's easy
to take your own life?
To leave everything
and disappear forever?
The festival of Dusshera
was coming in a month.
I'd wear my new clothes,
drums would beat.
There would be a fair...
stalls, lights, a big wheel
and a show.
In November,
Spuliya would be getting married.
There would be wedding music.
The groom would arrive on his horse.
To leave all this and go...
and see nothing?
And I'm not even...
What?
My groom would come one day,
my prince...
like in grandma's stories.
And I could not die.
Tea.
Are you going out?
Yes, to the lawyer's.
It's difficult in the daytime.
If I were your wife,
wouldn't you look at me in the day?
My wife?
If you love me,
why don't we marry?
What will happen to the company
if we get married?
We'd have to run away.
Is this place any good?
Are these people good?
I have a chance, why let it go?
Am I to be a taxi driver all my life?
There's no respect in it.
Everyone is rude to you...
swear at you, get angry.
Haggle over the fare.
Look at the room I'm given to sleep in.
One side is full of sacks.
This will change
when I have a company.
I'll never get another opportunity
like this, Gulabi.
All right, then.
Gulabi?
You will come tonight, won't you?
Greetings!
Please sit down.
Singhji is outside.
Shall I ask him in?
Yes, of course.
- Just a minute.
- Sir?
Just a minute...
Before he comes in,
have you arranged for...
You've known me for 14 years.
Have I ever let you down?
I'll be away for a few days.
But you are here tonight, aren't you?
Don't worry,
I have something special for you.
This is Singh.
- I've heard a lot about you. Sit down.
- I'm fine here.
Fine? There is a chair, please sit down.
How can we talk if you keep standing?
Sit down.
Singhji's family has lived in Bengal
for five generations.
I see!
In my grandfather's time a coachman
would not dare sit with us.
Today we are all equals.
- The thing is, Mr. Mansingh...
- Narsingh!
Narsingh? means Narasingha...
That's very good.
Mr. Narsingh, I don't know you.
He is a friend, a trusted friend.
Because of him,
I agreed to talk to you.
You know all about cars...
you even have experience.
You are also wise and clever.
That is your capital.
- No hard cash...
- Cash?
You are not investing any money.
- What about my car?
- Car?
I'm putting my car into the deal.
- What car?
- I have only one car, a Chrysler.
The one outside with the canvas top?
That honks away?
That... crap?
You mean my car is no good?
Ask him.
He doesn't mean it's bad or anything,
he means that if you have
a new company...
you can't go about in a taxi
that's 25 years old.
Exactly.
You belong to the rising generation.
If you cling to old things...
- What shall I do with it?
- Sell it.
Sell it.
If you get 700 rupees,
put it into the company.
But your share will be one-third.
Full partnership is no small
consideration. Well, Singhji?
Don't you like the offer?
It's a good car, it's served me well.
The engine's smooth.
Singhji...
Look at this brand new set of teeth.
I once owned the 1910 model.
They were no good anymore,
I had them pulled out.
Now I can eat the toughest meat.
All right.
Singhji...
I see a smile on your face at last.
Rama?
Singhji...
I can get at least 1,000 rupees
for this car.
That's guaranteed.
Don't worry about the price.
There's only one thing left now.
What?
The ghee tin.
Start the car.
Here's the address, drive straight in.
Give it to Mr. Jaggu.
Okay.
Singhji...
Do you want to take this?
Singhji?
Will you sell the car?
Yes. Anything to say about that?
Give it to me.
- Why should I give it to you?
- I will drive it.
Can you pay me 1,000 rupees for it?
Not now, but in two years,
when I run a taxi service.
What service? Won't you stay with me,
in my company?
How can I stay without a car?
I can't do it.
Bastard! Don't let me see
your face again!
- I know.
- So why are you here?
You will take that and deliver it.
I know.
Sukhanram's friends, such gentlemen.
What is it to you?
I know what's inside. Opium.
Isn't that a sin?
My wife ran away. Wasn't that a sin?
You come to my room at night.
Isn't that a sin?
Yes, it is. For a girl like me,
to love is a sin.
I'll be back in an hour. Come then.
Why?
Why should I come?
I'm asking you to come.
Won't you come?
Are you my boss, to be obeyed?
Gulabi?
Don't you know who my boss is?
He's your boss, too.
Salaam, Rana Pratap Singh.
Gulabi...
- Listen, I have important news.
- What is that?
Sukhanram's house
is going to be raided.
I overheard the boss.
I thought I'd warn you to watch out.
I'll be back in an hour, see you then.
- Where are you off to?
- Work, a few repairs.
All right, I'm going home.
I'll help you start up.
Joseph...
Where are you going?
Well done. Warrior.
Joseph...
I'll be back, Joseph.
Mr Sukhanram.
Mr Sukhanram?
- He's gone out.
- Where?
To the lawyer's.
Has the boss gone out?
Yes, Singhji.
Was anyone with him?
That girl.
(Gulabi)
- Come on.
- Where to?
We've work to do.
Gulabi, come with me.
The game's up. Taxi service is over.
- Where are we going?
- Home, Gulabi.
Thieves! Stop them!
I'm going, Joseph.
I'm off to Giribraja!
See you there.
THE END